The Australian government hired the team to investigate fatal car accidents to advise their marketing department to create an ad campaign with the aim of reducing the Australian road toll. In order to make the ad as impactful as possible they inquired, what were some common characteristics of fatal crash victims? Where do most fatal crashes occur? Are there any conditions that make fatal crashes more likely? To answer these questions the team analysed a datafile of Australian Fatal Road Accident (1989-2021), this provided information on the crash and the deceased victims as reported by police nationwide. Records prior to 2014 were not recorded with the detail required for analysis so were excluded. Any rows with null values in the age, speed and location columns were also removed from the study, leaving 6766 crashes from 2014-2021 to be analysed.  

The first finding of the study was regarding the type of road users that were killed in fatal crashes. As shown by a pie chart car drivers made up the largest portion of total fatalities with 47.5%, combining the categories of car and motorcycle drivers, people controlling the vehicle during the crash were the majority at 64.6% therefor they should be considered as the focus of the ad. 

When analysing the age and gender characteristics of the victims, all fatalities were analysed in addition to a selection of data representing victims who were the cause of the accident.  To study these victims only, the data had to meet two criteria. First the “Road User” column of the dataframe had to be either “Motorcycle rider” or “Driver”. Secondly, the “Crash Type” column value had to be “Single” as there was no way to identify if the driver fatality was at fault in a multi vehicle crash. 

The study found males made up 73.6% of all fatal crash victims and 85.1% of victims who caused the crash. This showed that the add should be targeted towards the male population. Next age was analysed in both age-range and discrete age form. A Bar chart revealed the 40–64-year-old age group made up the largest portion of all fatalities and driver fatalities with 31.19% and 33.57% respectively. This was followed by a steep drop off in numbers for 65-74 and 75 and older age groups. As the intervals for each age frame were not uniform, discrete age was also studied and compared to the number of road deaths.  Using a scatterplot and a linear regression model, it was discovered that there was a negative relationship between age and the number of crash fatalities. The relationship however, was much stronger in driver victims where the correlation coefficient was -0.68 showing a modest relationship whilst for all fatalities the value was -0.27 showing a weak relationship. This was further supported by the median age values which were 24 for the driver victim group and 66 for all fatalities group. Therefor it was advised the ad focus on young male car and motorcycle drivers between the ages of 18-30 as risk decreases with age. 

Next the state distribution of riad fatalities was studied. A bar chart illustrated NSW had the greatest number of road crash fatalities with over 500 more crashes than the next state Victoria, and this should be the focus area for the ad campaign. Next the remoteness of the crash area was analysed which revealed major cities and inner regional areas made up the largest portion of crashes with over 2000 each, whilst remote and very remote areas made up less than 500 fatalities in total. Based on this information it was recommended the feature inner city driving and also be played more in metro areas. 

Next the conditions of the crash were analysed, starting with the speed limit of the crash site. A line graph illustrating the relationship between the number of crashes and the speed of the crash site showed multiple peaks rather than a diagonal line. The largest peak was at 100km/h were the largest number of fatalities occurred followed by 60km and 80km which was the median. After 100km/h there was a sharp decrease in crashes. Despite the relationship between speed and the number of fatalities not being strictly linear, as additionally indicated by the correlation coefficient of 0.18, 100km was more than 600 crashes higher than the second highest peak and was thus  recommended to be the speed of crash in the ad.
When looking at the bar graphs created for the month the crash occurred you can see the fatalities are equally distributed throughout the year, thus this does not play a factor in crashes and does not need to be highlighted in the campaign. A similar distribution was shown in the bar graph for the day of the week the crash occurred with each bar representing no greater than 100 more crashes than the next highest day. Again showing the day of the week was not a factor in fatal crash occurrence and did not need to be included in the ad. 

Lastly the time of day the crash occurred was visualised in a pie chart, showing the largest portion of crashes occurred between 12pm and 6pm (afternoon) with 36.08%, followed by morning 6am-12pm with 25.63%. This indicates 61.71% of crashes occur in the daylight and thus it is recommended the ad feature daylight conditions. 
In conclusion based on the analysis of the fatal crash data, the team recommended the ad portray a young male driver between the age of 18-30, driving 100km/h in an inner city area during daylight hours. The majority of the ad space should be purchased in NSW where most of the crashes occur and played during tv programs where the target demographic is young males. 
